index.md, before:

---
title: Meet the Course
layout: home
nav_order: 0
---

# Meet the Course

Welcome to ENGL 340, Spring 2024, *Literature and Literary Study in the Digital Age* at SUNY Geneseo. There's so much to tell you about it! Use the links below to navigate the content on this page.

- [What the course is about](#what-the-course-is-about)
- [Who's teaching the course](#whos-teaching-the-course)
- [When we'll meet](#when-well-meet)
- [How and when to find me](#how-and-when-to-find-me)
- [Learning outcomes](#learning-outcomes)
- [Assessment](#assessment)
- [What we'll read](#what-well-read)
- [Requirements and evaluation](#requirements-and-evaluation)
- [Tools and accounts](#tools-and-accounts)
- [Do you have a disability?](#do-you-have-a-disability)
- [Take care of yourself](#take-care-of-yourself)
- [Think about others](#think-about-others)
- [Additional resources](#additional-resources)
- [Schedule at a glance](#schedule-at-a-glance)

## What the course is about

In this course, we'll work together to understand how computers have changed the field of possibilities for studying books&mdash;in particular, books of the kind usually classified as "literature."

To do this, we'll need some base level of understanding for the two parts of our equation: computers on the one hand, books on the other. *Broad Band: The Untold Story of the Women Who Made the Internet*, by Claire L. Evans, will help us establish a base-level understanding of computers that's not just technical but historical, with an emphasis on the frequently neglected role of women in the history of computing. *The Book*, by Amaranth Borsuk, will introduce us to the material and conceptual history of the book. 

We'll also need a particular book that we can keep coming back to in order to test what computers can help us do with literature. [*Walden*](https://commons.digitalthoreau.org/walden/), by Henry David Thoreau, will be that book. Because *Walden* is a book that's partly about technology, in which the author has some provocative things to say about literature, it will also help us think more broadly about the relationship between books and computers.

Finally, everyone will need to have a working computer running the software required to do the things we want our computers to do with literature. Specifically, you'll need a laptop running a reasonably up-to-date version of Windows, macOS, or Linux. Chromebooks, tablets, and phones won't suffice. You'll need to bring your laptop to every class. If your laptop breaks down or is lost or stolen, you'll need to find a substitute.

## Who's teaching the course

 I'm Paul Schacht, Professor of English and [Director of the Center for Digital Learning](https://geneseo.edu/cdl) at SUNY Geneseo. I've taught here since 1985. I use he/him pronouns. I somehow can't quit X, where I'm [@WhatTheDickens](https://twitter.com/whatthedickens) and [@DigitalThoreau](https://twitter.com/digitalthoreau), but I rarely post there as either any longer. I can also be found on Mastodon ([WhatTheDickens@mastodon.online](https://mastodon.online/@whatthedickens), [DigitalThoreau@hcommons.social](https://hcommons.social/@digitalthoreau)) but am still settling in there.

## When we'll meet

- Mondays and Wednesdays, 12:30 pm - 1:45 pm; Fridays, 1:30 pm - 1:20 pm
- Final meeting (attendance mandatory) Monday, May 6, 12 pm - 3:20 pm

## How and when to find me

- Wednesday, 2:30 pm - 4:00 pm in South 347
- Any free time that works for you at [https://schacht.youcanbook.me](https://schacht.youcanbook.me)

## Learning outcomes

### Individual learning outcomes

What will you know and be able to do as a result of taking this course? First, because this is a 300-level English course, you’ll improve your

- ability to read texts in relation to history
- understanding of how texts are related to social and cultural categories (e.g., race, ethnicity, gender, sexuality, class, ability), enterprises (e.g. philosophy, science, politics), and institutions (e.g., of religion, of education)
- understanding of how language as a system or linguistic change over time inform literature as an aesthetic object, expressive medium, or social document

In addition, as a result of taking ENGL 340, you should

- understand, at a basic level, the computational dimension of language and literature
- understand, at a basic level, some common uses of computation and computational tools in the study of literature
- feel prepared to use computational methods and tools for literary analysis and interpretation in another literature course
- know more about how your computer works than you did before

### Community learning outcomes

What will we accomplish in this course as a community?

- Produce new knowledge (new for this community) about literature and literary study in the digital age
- Share knowledge about literature and literary study in the digital age in accordance with scholarly conventions
- Discuss and debate ideas about individual literary works and about the nature of literature and literary criticism in ways that respect the diversity of the community
- Help one another when we’re stuck

### Module-specific outcomes

On the "Outcomes/Activities" page for each module, you'll find learning outcomes specific to that module.

## Assessment

How will you know if you’ve met the individual outcomes? How will we know if we’ve met the community outcomes?

- You’ll keep a journal in which you write regularly about what you’re learning in the course
- You’ll post to a blog and reflect on your learning in this course
- You’ll contribute to a group project in which you make use of particular computing skills that you acquire in the course

## What we'll read

- The content of these modules
- Amaranth Borsuk, *The Book*
- Claire L. Evans, *Broad Band: The Untold Story of the Women Who Made the Internet*
- Henry D. Thoreau, [*Walden*](https://commons.digitalthoreau.org/walden/)
- Assorted other readings

## Requirements and evaluation

Your final grade in this course will be based on the number of points you earn out of a maximum of 100 points. You’ll earn points for the activities listed below. You must complete all assigned work to pass the course.

- **Blog**: You'll earn up to **30** points for two blog posts (15 points each) in which you reflect on your learning in this course. (Due 2/19 and 4/26.) 
- **Class work**: You'll earn up to **40** points for in-class work submitted *by the end of each class meeting.* (Typically, 1 point per timely submission.)
- **Project work**: You'll earn up to **30** points for a group project to which you contribute, with **10** of those points coming from your personal contribution to the project and a final blog post you'll write about your work on it.

## Tools and accounts

In addition to a working laptop computer running an up-to-date version of macOS, Windows, or Linux, you'll need some additional tools and accounts. The modules explain how to obtain the last two of these, so don't rush out in search of them until we've discussed them in class.

- An account at [English @ SUNY Geneseo](https://sunygeneseoenglish.org)
- An account at [The Readers' Thoreau](https://commons.digitalthoreau.org)
- The Microsoft Teams app (available to all Geneseo users; the web version of Teams won't suffice)
- Visual Studio Code, BBEdit, or another plain-text editor with syntax-highlighting (explained in module)
- Git Bash or WSL for Windows (Windows users only; explained in module)

## Do you have a disability?

SUNY Geneseo will make reasonable accommodations for persons with documented physical, emotional or learning disabilities. Accommodations will be made for medical conditions related to pregnancy or parenting. Requests for accommodations including letters or review of existing accommodations should be directed to the [Office of Accessibility Services](https://www.geneseo.edu/accessibility-office) in Erwin 22. If you have an accommodation letter, let me know as soon as possible in the semester so we can discuss specific arrangements.

## Take care of yourself

It’s hard work being a student! You can improve your chances of success by eating well, getting enough sleep, and making wise choices. **If you need help, ask for it.** [Student Health and Counseling](https://www.geneseo.edu/health) can help you if you’re sick or need psychological or emotional support. A variety of [Campus Learning Centers](https://www.geneseo.edu/library/center-academic-excellence), including the [Writing Learning Center](https://www.geneseo.edu/english/leadership-and-hands-learning#writing-learning-center), offer academic support services. **And then there’s me.** [Schedule an appointment](https://schacht.youcanbook.me) to see me in my office or meet online for help with assignments, to tell me if you’re facing basic obstacles to success such as food insecurity, or to continue the conversation about readings and topics in the course. If reading or discussing certain kinds of content in this course might prove traumatic for you, let me know and we’ll work together to figure out a reasonable solution. You should be prepared for the fact that some works on the syllabus contain depictions of or allusions to violence and sexuality.

## Think about others

- Express yourself honestly but respectfully
- Practice [forbearance](https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/forbearance) when offended by others, even as you exercise your right to explain your reasons for taking offense
- Consider how the world looks to someone who is not you
- Do your best to address others as they prefer to be addressed

## Additional resources

The SUNY Geneseo Office of the Provost has compiled a [very helpful one-page catalog of student resources](https://sunygeneseo.sharepoint.com/sites/provost/sitepages/syllabus%20resources%20related%20to%20student%20success/syllabus-resources-related-to-student-success.aspx?web=1&xsdata=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%3d%3d&sdata=MkdnWFQvRWlvM21LUDFxWmpmbStQdHI2Z3lXUlY1Y0RHVTBEbDBJdDg0Yz0%3d&ovuser=02ce934f-066a-4d00-b828-cedba7cf4f79%2cblood%40geneseo.edu&OR=Teams-HL&CT=1705008255154&clickparams=eyJBcHBOYW1lIjoiVGVhbXMtRGVza3RvcCIsIkFwcFZlcnNpb24iOiI1MC8yMzExMTYzMDAxMyIsIkhhc0ZlZGVyYXRlZFVzZXIiOmZhbHNlfQ%3d%3d&SafelinksUrl=https%3a%2f%2fsunygeneseo.sharepoint.com%2fsites%2fprovost%2fsitepages%2fsyllabus%2520resources%2520related%2520to%2520student%2520success%2fsyllabus-resources-related-to-student-success.aspx) covering a wide range of topics, including personal health and well-being, food security, and how to report bias-related incidents. 

## Schedule at a glance

The readings and activities for each module in the course are listed on the "Outcomes/Activities" page for that module. You can also see the whole schedule at a glance below.

### Monday, January 22

- 👋

### Wednesday, January 24

##### Before class

- Read *Broad Band*, pp. 1-53
- Read all the pages in this module and do your best to carry out the instructions. Take notes on anything you weren't able to accomplish.

##### In class

- We'll discuss *Broad Band* and make sure everyone's GUI is set up per the instructions in the module.

<!-- ### Product

- Share information about your operating system and files. -->

### Friday, January 26

- Group 1 small-group meeting.

---

### Monday, January 29

##### Before class

- Read *Broad Band*, pp. 53-81.
- Read [What is the Command Line?]({{ site.url }}/mod-2/what-is-the-command-line), [Types of Commands]({{ site.url }}/mod-2/types-of-commands), and [Getting Started]({{ site.url }}/mod-2/getting-started) in this module.
- If you're a Windows user, follow the instructions in [Types of Commands]({{ site.url }}/mod-2/types-of-commands) to install Git Bash. Take notes on any roadblocks you run into.

##### In class

- We'll discuss *Broad Band*.
- We'll get ourselves accustomed to the terminal

<!-- ### Product

- tbd 
-->

### Wednesday, January 31

##### Before class

- Practice your command line skills. Try out some of the activities in the rest of this module if you're feeling bold.
- Take notes on any roadblocks you run into and questions that come up for you.

##### In class

- We'll fun at the command line.

<!--
##### Product

- tbd 
-->

### Friday, February 2

- Group 2 small-group meeting.

---

### Monday, February 5

##### Before class

- Read through the pages of this module. *Be sure to install Visual Studio Code* according to the instructions linked in [Text Editors]({{ site.url }}/text-editors).
- You may want to hold off on carrying out the instructions in [Keep a Daily Journal in Markdown]({{ site.url }}/keep-a-daily-journal) until we meet in class.

##### In class

- We'll make sure everyone has Visual Studio Code installed and working.
- We'll work on creating a journal script and making sure everyone has a journal workflow.
- We'll discuss the importance of interoperability as a principle in computing.

### Wednesday, February 7

##### Before class

- Read *Walden*, "Economy" paragraphs 1-70.

##### In class

- We'll discuss *Walden* and discuss connections between Thoreau's book and our work with computers.

### Friday, February 9

- Group 3 meeting.

---

### Monday, February 12

##### Before class

- Read [What is Scholarly Editing?]({{ site.url }}/mod-4/what-is-scholarly-editing), [Types of Scholarly Editing]({{ site.url }}/mod-4/types-of-scholarly-editing), and [Computers and Scholarly Editing]({{ site.url }}/mod-4/computers-and-scholarly-editing) in this module.
- Read *The Book*, 1-110

##### In class

- We'll discuss books and editing.
- We'll prepare for Douglass Day.

### Wednesday, February 14

##### Before class

- Create an account at the Library of Congress.

##### In class

- We'll meet in the College Union Ballroom to participate in Douglass Day.

### Friday, February 16

- Group 4 meeting.

---

### Monday, February 19

##### Before class

- Read *Walden*, "Economy," paragraphs 71 to end.
- Read [From Metareading to Markup]({{ site.url }}/mod-4/from-metareading-to-markup) and [Markup and Manuscripts]({{ site.url }}/mod-4/markup-and-manuscripts) in this module.

##### In class

- We'll discuss Thoreau, metareading, and markup languages.

### Wednesday, February 21

##### Before class

- Read *Walden*, "Where I Lived, and What I Lived For."
- Read the pages in this module.

##### In class

- Visit with Beth Witherell, Editor-in-Chief of *The Collected Writings of Henry D. Thoreau*.

### Friday, February 23

- Group 5 meeting.

---

### Monday, February 26

##### Before class

- Read *Walden*, "Reading," "Sounds," "Solitude"
- Read the pages in this module.

##### In class

- We'll discuss *Walden* and explore TEI.

### Wednesday, February 28

##### Before class

- Read *Walden*, "Visitors," "The Bean-Field," "The Village"

##### In class

- We'll discuss *Walden* and continue exploring TEI.

### Friday, March 1

- Group 1 meeting.

---

### Monday, March 4

##### Before class

- Read [The Internet is Not the Web]({{ site.url}}/mod-7/the-internet-is-not-the-web), [What is the Web?]({{ site.url}}/mod-7/what-is-the-web), and [HTTP and URL]({{ site.url}}/mod-7/http-and-url) in this module.
- Read *Broad Band*, 81-130.

##### In class

- We'll discuss *Broad Band* and 🏄 the web.

### Wednesday, March 6

##### Before class

- Read [HTML Basics]({{ site.url}}/mod-7/html-basics), [CSS Basics]({{ site.url}}/mod-7/css-basics), and [CSS Syntax]({{ site.url}}/mod-7/css-syntax) in this module.
- Read *Broad Band*, 153-174

##### In class

- We'll discuss *Broad Band* and play with HTML and CSS

### Friday, March 8

- Group 2 meeting

---

🌱🌱 Spring Break 🌱🌱

---

### Monday, March 18

##### Before class

- Read the rest of the pages in this module.

##### In class

- We'll discuss design justice and review what we've learned about HTML and CSS

### Wednesday, March 20

##### Before class

- Read *The Book*, 111-196.

##### In class

- We'll discuss *The Book* and catch up as needed.

### Friday, March 22

- Group 3 meeting.

---

### Monday, March 25

##### Before class

- Read *Walden*, "The Ponds," "Baker Farm," "Higher Laws"

##### In class

- We'll discuss *Walden* explore images of the *Walden* manuscript.

### Wednesday, March 27

##### Before class

- Read *Walden*, "Brute Neighbors," "House-Warming," and "Former Inhabitants; and Winter Visitors"
- Review [Attributes, Links, Images]({{ site.url }}/mod-7/attributes-links-images) in the previous module.

##### In class

- We'll discuss *Walden* and play with incorporating images into web pages.

### Friday, March 29

- Group 4 meeting.

---

### Monday, April 1

##### Before class

- Read *Walden*, "Winter Animals," "The Pond in Winter," "Spring."
- Read [IIIF images]({{ site.url }}/mod-8/iiif-images) in this module.

##### In class

- We'll discuss *Walden* and play with IIIF images.

### Wednesday, April 3

##### Before class

- Read *Walden*, "Conclusion."

##### In class

- We'll discuss *Walden* and talk about the workflow for your group projects.

### Friday, April 5

- Group 5 meeting.

---

### Monday, April 8

- No class meeting: 🌘

### Wednesday, April 10

- Group project work in class.

### Friday, April 12

- Group project work in class.

---

### Monday, April 15

- Group project work in class.

### Wednesday, April 17

- Group project work in class.

### Friday, April 19

- No class meeting: SUNY Digital Learning Conference.

---

### Monday, April 22

### Wednesday, April 24

- No class meeting: GREAT Day.

### Friday, April 26

- Group project work in class.

---

### Monday, April 29

- Group project work in class.

### Wednesday, May 1

- Group project work in class.

### Friday, May 3

- Group project work in class.

---

### Monday, May 6

### Before class

- Prepare your group presentation.

### In class

- We'll listen to presentations and celebrate what we've learned together this semester. 🎉 🙌

Commit message:

edit home page, add image

index.md, after:

---
title: Meet the Course
layout: home
nav_order: 0
---

# Meet the Course

<img src="assets/cat_alog_3.jpg" alt="a cat sitting in a card catalog drawer" />  
*Image based on ["Insert Catalog Joke Here"](https://www.flickr.com/photos/klara/7253787934/), by user [Klara](https://www.flickr.com/photos/klara/) on Flickr. License: [CC-BY-NC-SA 2.0](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/2.0/).*

Oh hi! Welcome to ENGL 340, Spring 2024, *Literature and Literary Study in the Digital Age* at SUNY Geneseo. There's so much to tell you about it! Use the links below to navigate the content on this page.

- [What the course is about](#what-the-course-is-about)
- [Who's teaching the course](#whos-teaching-the-course)
- [When we'll meet](#when-well-meet)
- [How and when to find me](#how-and-when-to-find-me)
- [Learning outcomes](#learning-outcomes)
- [Assessment](#assessment)
- [What we'll read](#what-well-read)
- [Requirements and evaluation](#requirements-and-evaluation)
- [Tools and accounts](#tools-and-accounts)
- [Do you have a disability?](#do-you-have-a-disability)
- [Take care of yourself](#take-care-of-yourself)
- [Think about others](#think-about-others)
- [Additional resources](#additional-resources)
- [Schedule at a glance](#schedule-at-a-glance)

## What the course is about

In this course, we'll work together to understand how computers have changed the field of possibilities for studying books&mdash;in particular, books of the kind usually classified as "literature."

To do this, we'll need some base level of understanding for the two parts of our equation: computers on the one hand, books on the other. *Broad Band: The Untold Story of the Women Who Made the Internet*, by Claire L. Evans, will help us establish a base-level understanding of computers that's not just technical but historical, with an emphasis on the frequently neglected role of women in the history of computing. *The Book*, by Amaranth Borsuk, will introduce us to the material and conceptual history of the book. 

We'll also need a particular book that we can keep coming back to in order to test what computers can help us do with literature. [*Walden*](https://commons.digitalthoreau.org/walden/), by Henry David Thoreau, will be that book. Because *Walden* is a book that's partly about technology, in which the author has some provocative things to say about literature, it will also help us think more broadly about the relationship between books and computers.

Finally, everyone will need to have a working computer running the software required to do the things we want our computers to do with literature. Specifically, you'll need a laptop running a reasonably up-to-date version of Windows, macOS, or Linux. Chromebooks, tablets, and phones won't suffice. You'll need to bring your laptop to every class. If your laptop breaks down or is lost or stolen, you'll need to find a substitute.

## Who's teaching the course

 I'm Paul Schacht, Professor of English and [Director of the Center for Digital Learning](https://geneseo.edu/cdl) at SUNY Geneseo. I've taught here since 1985. I use he/him pronouns. I somehow can't quit X, where I'm [@WhatTheDickens](https://twitter.com/whatthedickens) and [@DigitalThoreau](https://twitter.com/digitalthoreau), but I rarely post there as either any longer. I can also be found on Mastodon ([WhatTheDickens@mastodon.online](https://mastodon.online/@whatthedickens), [DigitalThoreau@hcommons.social](https://hcommons.social/@digitalthoreau)) but am still settling in there.

## When we'll meet

- Mondays and Wednesdays, 12:30 pm - 1:45 pm; Fridays, 1:30 pm - 1:20 pm
- Final meeting (attendance mandatory) Monday, May 6, 12 pm - 3:20 pm

## How and when to find me

- Wednesday, 2:30 pm - 4:00 pm in South 347
- Any free time that works for you at [https://schacht.youcanbook.me](https://schacht.youcanbook.me)

## Learning outcomes

### Individual learning outcomes

What will you know and be able to do as a result of taking this course? First, because this is a 300-level English course, you’ll improve your

- ability to read texts in relation to history
- understanding of how texts are related to social and cultural categories (e.g., race, ethnicity, gender, sexuality, class, ability), enterprises (e.g. philosophy, science, politics), and institutions (e.g., of religion, of education)
- understanding of how language as a system or linguistic change over time inform literature as an aesthetic object, expressive medium, or social document

In addition, as a result of taking ENGL 340, you should

- understand, at a basic level, the computational dimension of language and literature
- understand, at a basic level, some common uses of computation and computational tools in the study of literature
- feel prepared to use computational methods and tools for literary analysis and interpretation in another literature course
- know more about how your computer works than you did before

### Community learning outcomes

What will we accomplish in this course as a community?

- Produce new knowledge (new for this community) about literature and literary study in the digital age
- Share knowledge about literature and literary study in the digital age in accordance with scholarly conventions
- Discuss and debate ideas about individual literary works and about the nature of literature and literary criticism in ways that respect the diversity of the community
- Help one another when we’re stuck

### Module-specific outcomes

On the "Outcomes/Activities" page for each module, you'll find learning outcomes specific to that module.

## Assessment

How will you know if you’ve met the individual outcomes? How will we know if we’ve met the community outcomes?

- You’ll keep a journal in which you write regularly about what you’re learning in the course
- You’ll post to a blog and reflect on your learning in this course
- You’ll contribute to a group project in which you make use of particular computing skills that you acquire in the course

## What we'll read

- The content of these modules
- Amaranth Borsuk, *The Book*
- Claire L. Evans, *Broad Band: The Untold Story of the Women Who Made the Internet*
- Henry D. Thoreau, [*Walden*](https://commons.digitalthoreau.org/walden/)
- Assorted other readings

## Requirements and evaluation

Your final grade in this course will be based on the number of points you earn out of a maximum of 100 points. You’ll earn points for the activities listed below. You must complete all assigned work to pass the course.

- **Blog**: You'll earn up to **30** points for two blog posts (15 points each) in which you reflect on your learning in this course. (Due 2/19 and 4/26.) 
- **Class work**: You'll earn up to **40** points for in-class work submitted *by the end of each class meeting.* (Typically, 1 point per timely submission.)
- **Project work**: You'll earn up to **30** points for a group project to which you contribute, with **10** of those points coming from your personal contribution to the project and a final blog post you'll write about your work on it.

## Tools and accounts

In addition to a working laptop computer running an up-to-date version of macOS, Windows, or Linux, you'll need some additional tools and accounts. The modules explain how to obtain the last two of these, so don't rush out in search of them until we've discussed them in class.

- An account at [English @ SUNY Geneseo](https://sunygeneseoenglish.org)
- An account at [The Readers' Thoreau](https://commons.digitalthoreau.org)
- The Microsoft Teams app (available to all Geneseo users; the web version of Teams won't suffice)
- Visual Studio Code, BBEdit, or another plain-text editor with syntax-highlighting (explained in module)
- Git Bash or WSL for Windows (Windows users only; explained in module)

## Do you have a disability?

SUNY Geneseo will make reasonable accommodations for persons with documented physical, emotional or learning disabilities. Accommodations will be made for medical conditions related to pregnancy or parenting. Requests for accommodations including letters or review of existing accommodations should be directed to the [Office of Accessibility Services](https://www.geneseo.edu/accessibility-office) in Erwin 22. If you have an accommodation letter, let me know as soon as possible in the semester so we can discuss specific arrangements.

## Take care of yourself

It’s hard work being a student! You can improve your chances of success by eating well, getting enough sleep, and making wise choices. **If you need help, ask for it.** [Student Health and Counseling](https://www.geneseo.edu/health) can help you if you’re sick or need psychological or emotional support. A variety of [Campus Learning Centers](https://www.geneseo.edu/library/center-academic-excellence), including the [Writing Learning Center](https://www.geneseo.edu/english/leadership-and-hands-learning#writing-learning-center), offer academic support services. **And then there’s me.** [Schedule an appointment](https://schacht.youcanbook.me) to see me in my office or meet online for help with assignments, to tell me if you’re facing basic obstacles to success such as food insecurity, or to continue the conversation about readings and topics in the course. If reading or discussing certain kinds of content in this course might prove traumatic for you, let me know and we’ll work together to figure out a reasonable solution. You should be prepared for the fact that some works on the syllabus contain depictions of or allusions to violence and sexuality.

## Think about others

- Express yourself honestly but respectfully
- Practice [forbearance](https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/forbearance) when offended by others, even as you exercise your right to explain your reasons for taking offense
- Consider how the world looks to someone who is not you
- Do your best to address others as they prefer to be addressed

## Additional resources

The SUNY Geneseo Office of the Provost has compiled a [very helpful one-page catalog of student resources](https://sunygeneseo.sharepoint.com/sites/provost/sitepages/syllabus%20resources%20related%20to%20student%20success/syllabus-resources-related-to-student-success.aspx?web=1&xsdata=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%3d%3d&sdata=MkdnWFQvRWlvM21LUDFxWmpmbStQdHI2Z3lXUlY1Y0RHVTBEbDBJdDg0Yz0%3d&ovuser=02ce934f-066a-4d00-b828-cedba7cf4f79%2cblood%40geneseo.edu&OR=Teams-HL&CT=1705008255154&clickparams=eyJBcHBOYW1lIjoiVGVhbXMtRGVza3RvcCIsIkFwcFZlcnNpb24iOiI1MC8yMzExMTYzMDAxMyIsIkhhc0ZlZGVyYXRlZFVzZXIiOmZhbHNlfQ%3d%3d&SafelinksUrl=https%3a%2f%2fsunygeneseo.sharepoint.com%2fsites%2fprovost%2fsitepages%2fsyllabus%2520resources%2520related%2520to%2520student%2520success%2fsyllabus-resources-related-to-student-success.aspx) covering a wide range of topics, including personal health and well-being, food security, and how to report bias-related incidents. 

## Schedule at a glance

The readings and activities for each module in the course are listed on the "Outcomes/Activities" page for that module. You can also see the whole schedule at a glance below.

### Monday, January 22

- 👋

### Wednesday, January 24

##### Before class

- Read *Broad Band*, pp. 1-53
- Read all the pages in this module and do your best to carry out the instructions. Take notes on anything you weren't able to accomplish.

##### In class

- We'll discuss *Broad Band* and make sure everyone's GUI is set up per the instructions in the module.

<!-- ### Product

- Share information about your operating system and files. -->

### Friday, January 26

- Group 1 small-group meeting.

---

### Monday, January 29

##### Before class

- Read *Broad Band*, pp. 53-81.
- Read [What is the Command Line?]({{ site.url }}/mod-2/what-is-the-command-line), [Types of Commands]({{ site.url }}/mod-2/types-of-commands), and [Getting Started]({{ site.url }}/mod-2/getting-started) in this module.
- If you're a Windows user, follow the instructions in [Types of Commands]({{ site.url }}/mod-2/types-of-commands) to install Git Bash. Take notes on any roadblocks you run into.

##### In class

- We'll discuss *Broad Band*.
- We'll get ourselves accustomed to the terminal

<!-- ### Product

- tbd 
-->

### Wednesday, January 31

##### Before class

- Practice your command line skills. Try out some of the activities in the rest of this module if you're feeling bold.
- Take notes on any roadblocks you run into and questions that come up for you.

##### In class

- We'll fun at the command line.

<!--
##### Product

- tbd 
-->

### Friday, February 2

- Group 2 small-group meeting.

---

### Monday, February 5

##### Before class

- Read through the pages of this module. *Be sure to install Visual Studio Code* according to the instructions linked in [Text Editors]({{ site.url }}/text-editors).
- You may want to hold off on carrying out the instructions in [Keep a Daily Journal in Markdown]({{ site.url }}/keep-a-daily-journal) until we meet in class.

##### In class

- We'll make sure everyone has Visual Studio Code installed and working.
- We'll work on creating a journal script and making sure everyone has a journal workflow.
- We'll discuss the importance of interoperability as a principle in computing.

### Wednesday, February 7

##### Before class

- Read *Walden*, "Economy" paragraphs 1-70.

##### In class

- We'll discuss *Walden* and discuss connections between Thoreau's book and our work with computers.

### Friday, February 9

- Group 3 meeting.

---

### Monday, February 12

##### Before class

- Read [What is Scholarly Editing?]({{ site.url }}/mod-4/what-is-scholarly-editing), [Types of Scholarly Editing]({{ site.url }}/mod-4/types-of-scholarly-editing), and [Computers and Scholarly Editing]({{ site.url }}/mod-4/computers-and-scholarly-editing) in this module.
- Read *The Book*, 1-110

##### In class

- We'll discuss books and editing.
- We'll prepare for Douglass Day.

### Wednesday, February 14

##### Before class

- Create an account at the Library of Congress.

##### In class

- We'll meet in the College Union Ballroom to participate in Douglass Day.

### Friday, February 16

- Group 4 meeting.

---

### Monday, February 19

##### Before class

- Read *Walden*, "Economy," paragraphs 71 to end.
- Read [From Metareading to Markup]({{ site.url }}/mod-4/from-metareading-to-markup) and [Markup and Manuscripts]({{ site.url }}/mod-4/markup-and-manuscripts) in this module.

##### In class

- We'll discuss Thoreau, metareading, and markup languages.

### Wednesday, February 21

##### Before class

- Read *Walden*, "Where I Lived, and What I Lived For."
- Read the pages in this module.

##### In class

- Visit with Beth Witherell, Editor-in-Chief of *The Collected Writings of Henry D. Thoreau*.

### Friday, February 23

- Group 5 meeting.

---

### Monday, February 26

##### Before class

- Read *Walden*, "Reading," "Sounds," "Solitude"
- Read the pages in this module.

##### In class

- We'll discuss *Walden* and explore TEI.

### Wednesday, February 28

##### Before class

- Read *Walden*, "Visitors," "The Bean-Field," "The Village"

##### In class

- We'll discuss *Walden* and continue exploring TEI.

### Friday, March 1

- Group 1 meeting.

---

### Monday, March 4

##### Before class

- Read [The Internet is Not the Web]({{ site.url}}/mod-7/the-internet-is-not-the-web), [What is the Web?]({{ site.url}}/mod-7/what-is-the-web), and [HTTP and URL]({{ site.url}}/mod-7/http-and-url) in this module.
- Read *Broad Band*, 81-130.

##### In class

- We'll discuss *Broad Band* and 🏄 the web.

### Wednesday, March 6

##### Before class

- Read [HTML Basics]({{ site.url}}/mod-7/html-basics), [CSS Basics]({{ site.url}}/mod-7/css-basics), and [CSS Syntax]({{ site.url}}/mod-7/css-syntax) in this module.
- Read *Broad Band*, 153-174

##### In class

- We'll discuss *Broad Band* and play with HTML and CSS

### Friday, March 8

- Group 2 meeting

---

🌱🌱 Spring Break 🌱🌱

---

### Monday, March 18

##### Before class

- Read the rest of the pages in this module.

##### In class

- We'll discuss design justice and review what we've learned about HTML and CSS

### Wednesday, March 20

##### Before class

- Read *The Book*, 111-196.

##### In class

- We'll discuss *The Book* and catch up as needed.

### Friday, March 22

- Group 3 meeting.

---

### Monday, March 25

##### Before class

- Read *Walden*, "The Ponds," "Baker Farm," "Higher Laws"

##### In class

- We'll discuss *Walden* explore images of the *Walden* manuscript.

### Wednesday, March 27

##### Before class

- Read *Walden*, "Brute Neighbors," "House-Warming," and "Former Inhabitants; and Winter Visitors"
- Review [Attributes, Links, Images]({{ site.url }}/mod-7/attributes-links-images) in the previous module.

##### In class

- We'll discuss *Walden* and play with incorporating images into web pages.

### Friday, March 29

- Group 4 meeting.

---

### Monday, April 1

##### Before class

- Read *Walden*, "Winter Animals," "The Pond in Winter," "Spring."
- Read [IIIF images]({{ site.url }}/mod-8/iiif-images) in this module.

##### In class

- We'll discuss *Walden* and play with IIIF images.

### Wednesday, April 3

##### Before class

- Read *Walden*, "Conclusion."

##### In class

- We'll discuss *Walden* and talk about the workflow for your group projects.

### Friday, April 5

- Group 5 meeting.

---

### Monday, April 8

- No class meeting: 🌘

### Wednesday, April 10

- Group project work in class.

### Friday, April 12

- Group project work in class.

---

### Monday, April 15

- Group project work in class.

### Wednesday, April 17

- Group project work in class.

### Friday, April 19

- No class meeting: SUNY Digital Learning Conference.

---

### Monday, April 22

### Wednesday, April 24

- No class meeting: GREAT Day.

### Friday, April 26

- Group project work in class.

---

### Monday, April 29

- Group project work in class.

### Wednesday, May 1

- Group project work in class.

### Friday, May 3

- Group project work in class.

---

### Monday, May 6

### Before class

- Prepare your group presentation.

### In class

- We'll listen to presentations and celebrate what we've learned together this semester. 🎉 🙌
