mod-9/project-details.md, before:

---
title: Project Details
layout: default
parent: Group Projects
nav_order: 1
---

# Project Details

Each group will select a single passage or small group of related passages from the manuscript of *Walden* that Thoreau revised over the course of two or more draft versions.

Together, your group will carry out four tasks with respect to your selected passage or passages:

1. Produce a valid TEI file that transcribes the portions of the manuscript pages relevant to your selected passage(s).
2. Compose, in valid Markdown, a narrative of Thoreau's revisions to the passage(s), using evidence and logic to support a hypothesis about the sequence of, motivation for, and effect of the changes on the published text of *Walden*.
3. Publish your narrative to the [Digital Humanities at Geneseo blog](https://dh.sunygeneseoenglish.org), incorporating valid IIIF image URLs both to illustrate key moments in the narrative and to highlight important evidentiary support for it.
4. Report on your project to the class at our final meeting (**May 14, 12:00&ndash;3:20 p.m.**), explaining the reasoning and evidence behind your revision narrative and sharing details about obstacles and triumphs you encountered in the course of completing this assignment.

*All group communications about your project must take place in your group's Teams channel. You must collaborate on your blog post in the Google Colaboratory notebook that I've shared with your group.*

## TEI template file

- [Download the template file](https://github.com/WhatTheDickens/engl340-s24/blob/main/assets/tei-template.xml) for your TEI transcription from GitHub and rename it appropriately.

<!--

## Practice files

- [Handwritten file to transcribe]({{ site.url }}/assets/sample_text_for_tei.pdf)
- [TEI file for transcribing handwritten practice file]({{ site.url }}/assets/sample_text_for_tei.pdf) -->

Commit message:

add file links to project page

mod-9/project-details.md, after:

---
title: Project Details
layout: default
parent: Group Projects
nav_order: 1
---

# Project Details

Each group will select a single passage or small group of related passages from the manuscript of *Walden* that Thoreau revised over the course of two or more draft versions.

Together, your group will carry out four tasks with respect to your selected passage or passages:

1. Produce a valid TEI file that transcribes the portions of the manuscript pages relevant to your selected passage(s).
2. Compose, in valid Markdown, a narrative of Thoreau's revisions to the passage(s), using evidence and logic to support a hypothesis about the sequence of, motivation for, and effect of the changes on the published text of *Walden*.
3. Publish your narrative to the [Digital Humanities at Geneseo blog](https://dh.sunygeneseoenglish.org), incorporating valid IIIF image URLs both to illustrate key moments in the narrative and to highlight important evidentiary support for it.
4. Report on your project to the class at our final meeting (**May 14, 12:00&ndash;3:20 p.m.**), explaining the reasoning and evidence behind your revision narrative and sharing details about obstacles and triumphs you encountered in the course of completing this assignment.

*All group communications about your project must take place in your group's Teams channel. You must collaborate on your blog post in the Google Colaboratory notebook that I've shared with your group.*

## TEI template file

- [Download the template file](https://github.com/WhatTheDickens/engl340-s24/blob/main/assets/tei-template.xml) for your TEI transcription from GitHub and rename it appropriately.

## Other files

- The [handwritten text]({{ site.url }}/downloads/sample_text_for_tei.pdf) that's the source of the placeholder transcription you see in the template file.
- A [very basic TEI file](https://github.com/WhatTheDickens/engl340-s24/blob/main/downloads/basic_tei_file.xml) to help orient you in navigating the template file for your assignment.
