mod-6/outcomes.md, before:

---
title: Outcomes/Activities
layout: default
parent: Text Encoding
nav_order: 1
---
# Outcomes/Activities

At the completion of this module you should

1. Understand the value of modeling textual data using a machine-readable markup language
2. Understand how XML/TEI is used by digital scholarly editors to model textual data

# Dates and Activities

## Monday, February 26

### Before class

- Read *Walden*, "Reading," "Sounds," "Solitude"
- Read the pages in this module.

### In class

- We'll discuss *Walden* and explore TEI.

## Wednesday, February 28

### Before class

- Read *Walden*, "Visitors," "The Bean-Field," "The Village"

### In class

- We'll discuss *Walden* and continue exploring TEI.

## Friday, March 1

- Group 1 meeting.

<!-- ## Assignment: Fluid-text TEI

Look over the TEI file for the "Solitude" chapter that you downloaded from GitHub. It's chock full of markup, and it makes for pretty intimidating reading at first. Don't be scared off. Scroll down to the first paragraph. Compare what you see there with [the rendered text of the paragraph in Digital Thoreau's fluid-text edition of](http://digitalthoreau.org/walden/fluid/text/05.html) *[Walden](http://digitalthoreau.org/walden/fluid/text/05.html).* Then record some thoughts here about what the different tags mean. This exercise isn't about getting anything right. You're just seeing what you can figure out without having any expertise in this new language.

Record your thoughts by 11:59 p.m. on Wednesday, April 22.

## Question

<p>What do the <a href="https://digitalthoreau.org/data-and-visualizations">table and charts produced from data in the fluid-text edition of <em>Walden</em></a> suggest to you about the way the work evolved across its seven draft versions?</p> -->

Commit message:

add class work assignments to modules

mod-6/outcomes.md, after:

---
title: Outcomes/Activities
layout: default
parent: Text Encoding
nav_order: 1
---
# Outcomes/Activities

At the completion of this module you should

1. Understand the value of modeling textual data using a machine-readable markup language
2. Understand how XML/TEI is used by digital scholarly editors to model textual data

# Dates and Activities

## Monday, February 26

### Before class

- Read *Walden*, "Reading," "Sounds," "Solitude"
- Read the pages in this module.

### In class

- We'll discuss *Walden* and explore TEI.

***Class work:*** *In your folder for 2-26, share your journal file for the day with notes about things you learned and questions you have about TEI. In addition, leave a comment on a passage in* Walden *from one of the chapters assigned for today.* 

## Wednesday, February 28

### Before class

- Read *Walden*, "Visitors," "The Bean-Field," "The Village"

### In class

- We'll discuss *Walden* and continue exploring TEI.

***Class work:*** *In your folder for 2-28, share your journal file for the day with note about TEI. In addition, leave a comment on a passage in* Walden *from one of the chapters assigned for today.*

## Friday, March 1

- Group 1 meeting.

<!-- ## Assignment: Fluid-text TEI

Look over the TEI file for the "Solitude" chapter that you downloaded from GitHub. It's chock full of markup, and it makes for pretty intimidating reading at first. Don't be scared off. Scroll down to the first paragraph. Compare what you see there with [the rendered text of the paragraph in Digital Thoreau's fluid-text edition of](http://digitalthoreau.org/walden/fluid/text/05.html) *[Walden](http://digitalthoreau.org/walden/fluid/text/05.html).* Then record some thoughts here about what the different tags mean. This exercise isn't about getting anything right. You're just seeing what you can figure out without having any expertise in this new language.

Record your thoughts by 11:59 p.m. on Wednesday, April 22.

## Question

<p>What do the <a href="https://digitalthoreau.org/data-and-visualizations">table and charts produced from data in the fluid-text edition of <em>Walden</em></a> suggest to you about the way the work evolved across its seven draft versions?</p> -->
